Add guide for slash commands (#6008)
Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot: docs/guide_slash_and_interactions.rst

Slash Commands and Arguments
----------------------------

There is a lot of flexibility when it comes to slash commands.
Below we will go over some of the different stuff you can do with slash commands.

Decorators
----------
Just like with text commands, we can use decorators to modify the behaviour of our slash commands.
For example, we can use the :func:`app_commands.guild_only` decorator to make our slash command only work in guilds.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.guild_only()
        async def hello(self, interaction: discord.Interaction):
            await interaction.response.send_message("Hello World!", ephemeral=True)

One of the more useful decorators is the :func:`app.commands.choices` decorator.
This decorator allows us to specify a list of choices for a specific argument.
This is useful for arguments that have a limited number of options.
For example, we can use this to create a command that allows us to choose between two different colors.

> 
> .. code-block:: python
> 
>     from enum import Enum
>     from redbot.core import commands, app_commands
> 
>     class Color(Enum):
>         Red = 1
>         Blue = 2
> 
>     class MyCog(commands.Cog):
>         def __init__(self, bot):
>             self.bot = bot
> 
>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(color="The color you want to choose")
>         async def color(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, color: Color):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your color is {str(color.name)}", ephemeral=True)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: python

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(color="The color you want to choose")
        @app_commands.choices(color=[
             app_commands.Choice(name="Red', value="red"),
             app_commands.Choice(name="Blue', value="blue"),
        ])
        async def color(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, color: Color):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your color is {str(color)}", ephemeral=True)

The user will be shown the ``name`` of the choice, and the argument will be passed the
``value`` associated with that choice. This allows user-facing names to be prettier than
what is actually processed by the command.

Alternatively, ``Literal`` can be used if the argument does not need a different
user-facing label.

.. code-block:: python

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands
    from typing import Literal

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(color="The color you want to choose")
        async def color(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, color: Literal["Red", "Blue"]):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your color is {str(color)}", ephemeral=True)

Finally, an ``Enum`` subclass can be used to specify choices. When done this way, the
resulting parameter will be an instance of that enum, rather than the ``value``.

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum
    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class Color(Enum):
        Red = "red"
        Blue = "blue"

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(color="The color you want to choose")
        async def color(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, color: Color):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your color is {str(color.value)}", ephemeral=True)

```

        @zoo.command(name="add", description="Add an animal to the zoo")
        @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to add")
        async def zoo_add(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Added {animal} to the zoo", ephemeral=True)

        @zoo.command(name="remove", description="Remove an animal from the zoo")
        @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to remove")
        async def zoo_remove(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Removed {animal} from the zoo", ephemeral=True)

Arguments
---------
As shown in some of the above examples, we can amplify our slash commands with arguments.
However with slash commands Discord allows us to do a few more things.
Such as specifically select a channel that we'd like to use in our commands,
we can do the same with roles and members.
Let's take a look at how we can do that.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(channel="The channel you want to use")
>         async def channel(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, channel: discord.TextChannel):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your channel is {channel.mention}", ephemeral=True)
> 
>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(role="The role you want to use")
>         async def role(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, role: discord.Role):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your role is {role.mention}", ephemeral=True)
> 
>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(member="The member you want to use")
>         async def member(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, member: discord.Member):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your member is {member.mention}", ephemeral=True)
> 
> If you try out the channel command, you will see that it currently accepts any type of channel,
> however let's say we want to limit this to voice channels only.
> We can do so by adjusting our type hint to :class:`discord.VoiceChannel` instead of :class:`discord.TextChannel`.
> 
> .. code-block:: python
> 
>     import discord
> 
>     from redbot.core import commands, app_commands
> 
>     class MyCog(commands.Cog):
>         def __init__(self, bot):
>             self.bot = bot
> 
>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(channel="The channel you want to use")
>         async def channel(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, channel: discord.VoiceChannel):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your channel is {channel.mention}", ephemeral=True)
> 
> With integer and float arguments, we can also specify a minimum and maximum value.
> This can also be done to strings to set a minimum and maximum length.
> These limits will be reflected within Discord when the user is filling out the command.
> 
> .. code-block:: python
> 
>     import discord
> 
>     from redbot.core import commands, app_commands
> 
>     class MyCog(commands.Cog):
>         def __init__(self, bot):
>             self.bot = bot
> 
>         @app_commands.command()
>         @app_commands.describe(number="The number you want to use, max 10")
>         async def number(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, number: app_commands.Range[int, None, 10]):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your number is {number}", ephemeral=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(channel="The channel you want to mention")
        async def mentionchannel(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, channel: discord.TextChannel):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"That channel is {channel.mention}", ephemeral=True)

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(role="The role you want to mention")
        async def mentionrole(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, role: discord.Role):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"That role is {role.mention}", ephemeral=True)

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(member="The member you want to mention")
        async def mentionmember(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, member: discord.Member):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"That member is {member.mention}", ephemeral=True)

If you try out the mentionchannel command, you will see that it currently accepts any type of channel,
however let's say we want to limit this to voice channels only.
We can do so by adjusting our type hint to :class:`discord.VoiceChannel` instead of :class:`discord.TextChannel`.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(channel="The channel you want to mention")
        async def mentionchannel(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, channel: discord.VoiceChannel):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"That channel is {channel.mention}", ephemeral=True)

With integer and float arguments, we can also specify a minimum and maximum value.
This can also be done to strings to set a minimum and maximum length.
These limits will be reflected within Discord when the user is filling out the command.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(number="The number you want to say, max 10")
        async def saynumber(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, number: app_commands.Range[int, None, 10]):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your number is {number}", ephemeral=True)
```

.. Slash Commands and Interactions

.. role:: python(code)
    :language: python

===============================
Slash Commands and Interactions
===============================

This guide is going to cover on how to write a simple slash command into a Red cog.
This guide will assume that you have a working basic cog.
If you do not have a basic cog, please refer to the :ref:`getting started <getting-started>` guide.

> It is also adviced to make your self familiar with `Application Commands <https://discord.com/developers/docs/interactions/application-commands>`__ from Discord's documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also adviced to make yourself familiar with `Application Commands <https://discord.com/developers/docs/interactions/application-commands>`__ from Discord's documentation. 
```

---------------
Getting Started
---------------

To start off, we will have to import some additional modules to our cog file.
We will be using the :class:`redbot.core.app_commands` module to create our slash commands.
Once we have imported the module, we can start creating our slash commands in our cog class.
For this example we will use a basic hello world command.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        async def hello(self, interaction: discord.Interaction):
            await interaction.response.send_message("Hello World!", ephemeral=True)

> Go ahead and load your cog. Once it is loaded, we will have to register our slash commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go ahead and load your cog. Once it is loaded, we will have to enable and sync our slash commands.
```
At a minimum it needs to explicitly say both steps, though it might be helpful to add more explanation on top of this to walk them through enabling and syncing for the first time.

> We can do this by using the :ref:`Slash<core-command-slash>` command to manage our slash commands.

Reviewer: I would probably prefer it be made more explicit that this is a command by including the prefix, while still linking to the docs for it. I'm not sure if this will work, but maybe formatted like this example? [`[p]slash`](https://google.com)
(Applies to future cases that reference command docs like this)

Once you have registered your slash commands, you can test them out by typing ``/hello`` in your server.

----------------------------
Slash Commands and Arguments
----------------------------

There is a lot of flexibility when it comes to slash commands.
Below we will go over some of the different stuff you can do with slash commands.

Decorators
----------
Just like with text commands, we can use decorators to modify the behaviour of our slash commands.
For example, we can use the :func:`app_commands.guild_only` decorator to make our slash command only work in guilds.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.guild_only()
        async def hello(self, interaction: discord.Interaction):
            await interaction.response.send_message("Hello World!", ephemeral=True)

> One of the more useful decorators is the :func:`app.commands.choices` decorator.

Reviewer: I don't think your example uses this decorator, rather it uses the `enum` method of specifying choices. There's like 3 different ways that all work for specifying choices, this is just one of them.

.. code-block:: python

    from enum import Enum
    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class Color(Enum):
        Red = 1
        Blue = 2

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(color="The color you want to choose")
        async def color(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, color: Color):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your color is {str(color.name)}", ephemeral=True)

Check out the full reference of decorators on Discord.py's documentation `here <https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/interactions/api.html#decorators>`__.

Groups & Subcommands
--------------------
Slash commands can also be grouped together into groups and subcommands.
These can be used to create a more complex command structure.

.. note::
    Unlike text command groups, top level slash command groups **cannot** be invoked.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord
    
    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

>         group = app_commands.Group(name="zoo", description="Zoo related commands")
> 
>         @group.command(name="add", description="Add an animal to the zoo")
>         @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to add")
>         async def add_animal(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Added {animal} to the zoo", ephemeral=True)
> 
>         @group.command(name="remove", description="Remove an animal from the zoo")
>         @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to remove")
>         async def remove_animal(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Removed {animal} from the zoo", ephemeral=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        zoo = app_commands.Group(name="zoo", description="Zoo related commands")

        @zoo.command(name="add", description="Add an animal to the zoo")
        @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to add")
        async def zoo_add(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Added {animal} to the zoo", ephemeral=True)

        @zoo.command(name="remove", description="Remove an animal from the zoo")
        @app_commands.describe(animal="The animal you want to remove")
        async def zoo_remove(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, animal: str):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Removed {animal} from the zoo", ephemeral=True)
```
Keep the variable names consistent with how text command groups are _usually_ done.

However with slash commands Discord allows us to do a few more things.
Such as specifically select a channel that we'd like to use in our commands,
we can do the same with roles and members.
Let's take a look at how we can do that.

.. code-block:: python

    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(channel="The channel you want to use")
        async def channel(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, channel: discord.TextChannel):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your channel is {channel.mention}", ephemeral=True)

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(role="The role you want to use")
        async def role(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, role: discord.Role):
            await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your role is {role.mention}", ephemeral=True)

        @app_commands.command()
        @app_commands.describe(member="The member you want to use")
        async def member(self, interaction: discord.Interaction, member: discord.Member):

>             await interaction.response.send_message(f"Your member is {member.mention}", ephemeral=True)

Reviewer: Calling the command the same thing as the argument makes it a little confusing that the `name="Desc"` in the describe deco applies to the parameter name, not the function name. The previous example doesn't have this issue, so I don't think it's a huge deal, but something to consider for this and following examples.

> As you see with the channel command, we can pick a specific channel to use in our command,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try out the channel command, you will see that it currently accepts any type of channel,
```

---------------
Hybrid Commands
---------------
Hybrid commands are a way to bridge the gap between text commands and slash commands.
These types of commands allow you to write a text and slash command simultaneously using the same function.
This is useful for commands that you want to be able to use in both text and slash commands.

.. note::
    As with slash command groups, top level hybrid command groups **cannot** be invoked as a slash command. They can however be invoked as a text command.

.. code-block:: python

    from redbot.core import commands

    class MyCog(commands.Cog):
        def __init__(self, bot):
            self.bot = bot

        @commands.hybrid_command(name="cat")
        async def cat(self, ctx: commands.Context):
            await ctx.send("Meow")

        @commands.hybrid_group(name="dog")
        async def dog(self, ctx: commands.Context):
            await ctx.send("Woof")
            # As discussed above, top level hybrid command groups cannot be invoked as a slash command.
            # Thus, this will not work as a slash command.

        @dog.command(name="bark")
        async def bark(self, ctx: commands.Context):

>             await ctx.send("Bark")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            await ctx.send("Bark", ephemeral=True)
```
Just to include an example of `ephemeral` in the hybrids.

> After syncing your cog via the :ref:`Slash<core-command-slash>` command, you'll be able to use the commands as both a slash and text command.

Reviewer: Yeah... this is a little late lol. The other examples don't point out syncing. Like I said above, add a brief explanation of the enable/sync process for the _first_ command, then assume they know it for the rest.

---------------------
Context Menu Commands
---------------------
Context menu commands are a way to provide a interaction via the context menu.
These are seen under ``Apps`` in the Discord client when you right click on a message or user.
Context menu commands are a great way to provide a quick way to interact with your bot.
So long your command doesn't require any arguments that is.

> As these commands do not have the ability to accept any arguments.

Reviewer: This should either be removed, or rephrased to say that these commands only accept _one_ argument, the contextual `user` or `message` that was right clicked, and no more.

Setting up context commands is a bit more involved then setting up slash commands.
First lets setup our context commands in our cog.

.. code-block:: python
    
    import discord

    from redbot.core import commands, app_commands

    # Important: we're building the commands outside of our cog class.
    @app_commands.context_menu(name="Get message ID")
    async def get_message_id(interaction: discord.Interaction, message: discord.Message):
        await interaction.response.send_message(f"Message ID: {message.id}", ephemeral=True)

    @app_commands.context_menu(name="Get user ID")
    async def get_user_id(interaction: discord.Interaction, user: discord.User):
        await interaction.response.send_message(f"User ID: {user.id}", ephemeral=True)

    def __init__(self, bot):

>         self.bot = bot

Reviewer: Not sure why this is here, outside of a cog class

>     async def teardown(bot):

Reviewer: If teardown is here, and not in `__init__.py`, it needs to be imported. Better yet, it too should be in `__init__.py`.

        # We're removing the commands here to ensure they get unloaded properly when the cog is unloaded.
        bot.tree.remove_command("Get message ID", type=discord.AppCommandType.message)
        bot.tree.remove_command("Get user ID", type=discord.AppCommandType.user)

Once we've prepared our main cog file, we have to add a small bit of code to our ``__init__.py`` file.

.. code-block:: python

>     from .my_cog import MyCog, get_message_id, get_user_id

Reviewer: `MyCog` was not defined.

    async def setup(bot):
        bot.tree.add_command(get_message_id)
        bot.tree.add_command(get_user_id)
        await bot.add_cog(MyCog(bot))

Now we're ready to sync our commands to Discord.
We can do this by using the :ref:`Slash<core-command-slash>` command.

> Take note of the specific arguments you have to use to sync a context command.

Reviewer: Again, this is late and repeated.
